ORM [Object Relational Maping]:
    
    -> It is used to map java object to database table
    -> adv: It will generate database independent queries

Some ORM frameworks:
    -> hibernate(popular)
    -> ibaties
    -> toplink

* difference btw hibernate and JPA

For JPA projects you need 'Spring Data JPA' and 'MySQL Driver' libraries 

Steps to create Spring boot project:
    1. Spring starter project
        java, maven, 17
    2. Select the dependency
        ex: when we want to interact with database:
                . Spring Data JPA
                . MySQL Driver
    3. Fill the properties file
        We have to add url, username, pwd, drivers, etc that are required to connect to the DB.
        Since we have added datajpa and mysql dependency, so spring boot will try to auto configure database connection
    4. Package creation
        com.cts -------------- Base Package (because it has @SpringBootApplication)
        com.cts.entity ------- It has model class for our project
            Ex: Customer/Product/User
            These classes should be encapsulated (i.e declare variables as private and use public setters, getters)
            Each entity represents a table in the DB
            Always creae a default(required) & parameterized constructor(based on need) -> This is to follow the conventions
        com.cts.repository
            In springboot application, if we use spring data jpa, then this layer become complete abstraction
            Just define the interface, at runtime spring data jpa will provide the implementation
        com.cts.service
            We write the business logic
            Create a service interface and then provide the implementation
        com.cts.controller
    
@Entity
    Marks a class as a DB table

@Id
    Marks the variable(field) as primary key

These 2 are mandatory annotations for Entity classes

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here’s a clear and concise breakdown of the differences between ORM, Hibernate, JPA, and Spring Data JPA:

1. ORM (Object-Relational Mapping)

What it is: A concept or technique for mapping Java objects to database tables and vice versa.
Purpose: Eliminates most manual SQL by letting developers work with objects instead of rows/columns.
Examples: Hibernate, EclipseLink, MyBatis (partially), etc.
Key Point: ORM is not a library—it’s a design pattern or approach.


2. Hibernate

What it is: A popular ORM framework for Java.
Role: Implements ORM by mapping Java classes to database tables.
Features:

Implements JPA specification (from Java EE).
Provides extra features beyond JPA (e.g., caching, custom query language HQL).
Supports multiple databases with minimal config changes.


Key Point: Hibernate is an implementation of ORM and JPA.


3. JPA (Java Persistence API)

What it is: A Java specification (part of Java EE/Jakarta EE) that standardizes ORM in Java.
Purpose: Defines a set of interfaces and annotations for ORM.
Key Point:

JPA is just a specification—it does not provide implementation.
Needs a provider like Hibernate, EclipseLink, or OpenJPA to work.


Example:Java@Entity
public class User {
    @Id
    private Long id;
    private String name;
}




4. Spring Data JPA

What it is: A Spring framework module built on top of JPA.
Purpose: Simplifies JPA usage by reducing boilerplate code.
Features:

Auto-generates repository implementations from interfaces.
Supports query methods by naming convention.
Integrates seamlessly with Spring Boot.


Example:Javapublic interface UserRepository extends JpaRepository<User, Long> {
    List<User> findByName(String name);
}

(No need to write SQL or JPQL manually for simple queries.)


Summary Table



Term
Type
Provides Implementation?
Example Usage




ORM
Concept/Pattern
❌ No
Mapping objects to DB tables


JPA
Specification
❌ No
Defines annotations & APIs for ORM


Hibernate
Framework (ORM + JPA)
✅ Yes
Implements JPA + extra features


Spring Data JPA
Spring Module
✅ Uses JPA provider
Simplifies repository & query creation




💡 In short:

ORM → The idea.
JPA → The standard/specification for ORM in Java.
Hibernate → A popular implementation of JPA (and ORM).
Spring Data JPA → A Spring abstraction layer that makes JPA/Hibernate even easier to use.


If you want, I can also give you a diagram showing how ORM, JPA, Hibernate, and Spring Data JPA fit together so it’s visually clear.
Do you want me to prepare that?
